---
title: "RBC Open Community Information"
date: "2022-01-19 04:07:59"
category: "Other Developments"
excerpt: " RBC Open Community InformationThe City of Toronto will play host to the prestigious RBC Canadian Open at St. George’s Golf &amp; Country Club from Ju..."
---

<!-- wp:divi/placeholder -->
<h2>RBC Open Community Information</h2><p>The City of Toronto will play host to the prestigious RBC Canadian Open at St. George’s Golf &amp; Country Club from June 6 to June 12, 2022. Nearby Islington Golf Club will once again play host to the official practice facility for the RBC Canadian Open.</p>
<p>The RBC Canadian Open is one of Canada’s premier sport and entertainment events delivering world-class PGA TOUR golf and experiences for spectators of all ages including a two-night concert series. The tournament will attract over 125,000 spectators over seven days and a world-wide television audience reach of over one billion households. The unqualified success of the 2010 event at St George’s Golf &amp; Country Club (in partnership with Islington Golf Club) was key to Golf Canada’s decision to bring the event back to Etobicoke for a sixth time.</p>
<p>Due to the configuration of St. George’s, with the clubhouse and parking facilities located on the west side of Islington Avenue and the golf course located on the east side, the tournament will require the closure of Islington Avenue. This closure is proposed between Eglinton Avenue West in the north and The Kingsway in the south, for the following three weeks:</p>
<ul>
<li>Pre-tournament: Monday, May 30 – Sunday, June 5;</li>
<li>Tournament week: Monday, June 6 – Sunday, June 12; and</li>
<li>Post-tournament: Monday, Jun 13 – Friday, June 17.</li>
</ul>
<p>The closed section of Islington Avenue will serve as an area for the tournament, with Golf Canada, the tournament television partner(s), and others setting up operations and attractions.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>More Information - <a href="https://www.rbccanadianopen.com/communityinformation/">https://www.rbccanadianopen.com/communityinformation/</a></p>[All News & Events](@ET-DC@eyJkeW5hbWljIjp0cnVlLCJjb250ZW50IjoicG9zdF9saW5rX3VybF9wYWdlIiwic2V0dGluZ3MiOnsicG9zdF9pZCI6IjkzIn19@)<h2>Get in Touch. Get Involved.</h2>
<p><span>Have any questions or concerns regarding our community?</span></p>facebook
<!-- /wp:divi/placeholder -->