---
title: "About Us"
date: "2019-05-08 03:05:09"
excerpt: "About UsButtonwood Hill Residents Association (BHRA) brings the community together to advocate and stay informed about local events and issues impacti..."
---

<h1>About Us</h1><p><span>Buttonwood Hill Residents Association (BHRA) brings the community together to advocate and stay informed about local events and issues impacting our residents, in order to maintain safe and thriving neighbourhoods.</span></p>
<p>&nbsp;</p><h2>Our Story</h2><p><span>Buttonwood Hill Residents Association was formed in 2003 when our neighbourhood became aware of a proposed development at 75 Lemonwood Drive.  It was clear that our neighbours were concerned about the proposed height, density and increased traffic in the area. </span><span>A group of 6 residents began to meet regularly.  We talked to neighbours; attended public meetings; prepared petitions; became part of a working group with our City Councillor, the developer and City Staff.</span></p>
<p><span>We were then advised that the builder was proposing to build a seniors’ retirement residence and would also reduce the height of the building.  We were happy to welcome seniors into our neighbourhood and so approval to a revised proposal was given with the provision that the building would always remain a seniors’ residence or long term care facility.  We also secured Section 37 funds from the developer of $150,000.00 to be used for the improvement of Buttonwood Park for everyone to enjoy.</span></p>
<p><span>Since then, we have advocated for various issues in our neighbourhood, including traffic concerns and proposed new developments. </span><span>Most recently, in 2017, Buttonwood Hill Residents Association fought to support the sale of Buttonwood Hill Public School to a school board and provided support to Friends of Silver Creek to help Save Silver Creek School.  Today, we are very happy to report that it was a win/win outcome for both schools. </span><span>After working so well together, we partnered with Friends of Silver Creek this past March to present an informative and well-attended community meeting at Silver Creek School on the topic of Planning Section Funds.</span></p><h2 style="text-align: center;">Executive Team</h2>
<p style="text-align: center;">Thank you to our team of dedicated volunteers from the community who support our efforts and help drive change</p><h2 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;"></span></h2>
<h4 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;">Ela Tkach</span></h4>
<p style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff; font-size: 14px;">Director</span></p><h2 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;"></span></h2>
<h4 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;">Shabnam Ayough</span></h4>
<p style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff; font-size: 14px;">Director</span></p><h2 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;"></span></h2>
<h4 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;">Christina Manulak</span></h4>
<p style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff; font-size: 14px;">President</span></p><h2 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;"></span></h2>
<h4 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;">Pauline Saliba</span></h4>
<p style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff; font-size: 14px;">Director</span></p><h2 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;"></span></h2>
<h4 style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff;">Nancy Roper</span></h4>
<p style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #ffffff; font-size: 14px;">Director</span></p><h2 style="text-align: center;">Community Projects</h2>
<p style="text-align: center;">We monitor and work closely with several different project developments and community initiatives in the neighbourhood</p><p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Buttonwood Hill School was purchased by the Toronto Catholic District School Board on March 8, 2019. This site was recently ranked as #1 on the 2019-2020 Capital Priorities list, as a school is desperately needed in central Etobicoke. Currently, studies are underway to determine next steps and a public consultation process will follow. On October 2, 2019, our Board met with Trustee Markus de Domenico and confirmed our request for a community consultation meeting to be held in our neighbourhood. </span></p><p>Trinity Development Group and CreateTO (formerly Build Toronto) filed their zoning development application for the proposed buildings at Richview Square. The zoning by-law amendment application was submitted to permit the development of three new mixed-use buildings of 22, 22 and 11 storeys. Many modifications have been made by the developer after listening to community comments. Review continues.</p>
<p>In April of this year, Trinity Development Group and CreateTO (formerly Build Toronto) filed their zoning development application for the proposed buildings at Richview Square. The application and project details can be viewed at www.richviewsquare.com. The zoning by-law amendment application was submitted to permit the development of three new mixed-use building of 22, 22, and 16 storeys. Three community meetings were held preceding the application and many modifications have been made by the developer after listening to the communities concerns. Unfortunately, Trinity has not listened to the community in regard to building heights. Concerns have been made clear to the developer and to CreateTO, that a 22 floor residential building will not be supported by the community. Building heights 30%-40% lower would be more suitable in the context of this neighbourhood.</p>
<p>Next Steps: City Planning, Parks Forestry &amp; Recreation, and City Transportation departments must review the application. Owing to a serious backlog of applications and appeals, City Planning has said a preliminary report and initial public meeting will occur after the October 22 municipal election.</p>
<p><span>UPDATE: <a href="https://www.toronto.ca/legdocs/mmis/2021/ey/bgrd/backgroundfile-165504.pdf">City Staff Report dated March 31, 2021</a></span></p><p>We recently received some very good news that this development has yielded in $463,000 in Section 42 funds (rules governing parkland dedication that requires certain building sites are either set aside parkland or pay cash-in-lieu). These funds can be utilized in the years to come to make improvements to nearby parks.</p><p>Five buildings (6-9 storeys) will be constructed containing 523 units. Construction will get underway in the first half of 2019. The building of sales presentation centre will begin this summer at 291 The Kingsway.</p>
<p>Elia Corp, the company responsible for the redevelopment of the apartment buildings at St. This development was a big win at the OMB a year ago and the new development will be good for the local community.</p>
<p>What we know:</p>
<p>• Four buildings were approved (9,6,6 and 6 storeys)<br />• Two buildings have rental units, two will be for-purchase condominiums<br />• Condo units will be priced from $400,000 to $1,000,000<br />• The residents have been given notice of six months to vacate<br />• The sales office will be set up this summer at 291</p>
<p>The Kingsway The buildings at these addresses will be demolished, except for 289 The Kingsway, and re-built subject to Council’s final decision. On April 4, City Council approved the application for a demolition permit for the existing rental units in 291 The Kingsway 1,3,5,7 St. Stevens Court. The removal of five buildings will occur after all existing tenants have moved out. Construction will get underway in the first half of 2019.</p><p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Plant World closed its doors as of September 30, 2019. Four new towers are planned for this site, 3 buildings of 25-storeys and a 21- storey building, with a total of 1360 units. </span></p><p>This development’s been approved. A sales pavilion will likely appear this fall toward the end of 2018. Construction will take 2 ½ to 3 years. During construction, the LCBO will set up a trailer in the next parking lot serve the neighbourhood.</p>
<p>On April 12, First Capital confirmed that they have submitted a site plan amendment this spring in regard to changes to what is known as Block 5—where the LCBO and Bulk Barn are currently located. The construction of Block 5 will span 2-3 years. </p>
<p> <span style="font-weight: 400;">As of December 2019, the sales office is now open for the new condominium units that will be built at the site. </span></p><p>A seven-storey rental apartment building has been proposed. It includes 187 units and lies adjacent to an<br />existing 16 storey rental apartment building.</p>
<p>On May 4, 2018 our office received a notice from the Local Planning Appeal Tribunal (LPAT) concerning the hearing of 45 La Rose Ave that took place in April. The notice of decision will grant a zoning by-law amendment to permit an infill apartment building at the proposed location of 45 La Rose Avenue. Several changes to the original plan have been made to specifically address concerns of local area residents. The application is still in the very early stages of planning as the Tribunal was unable to schedule a full hearing. A second pre-hearing conference has been scheduled for February 11, 2019.</p><p>The Eglinton West LRT is part of a mass transit plan between the City of Toronto and the Province of Ontario. The Eglinton West LRT expansion is expected to be underground for much of the area between Mount Dennis to the airport.</p>
<p>Updates about the Eglinton West LRT are regularly provided online at:</p>
<p><a href="http://www.metrolinx.com/en/greaterregion/projects/eglinton-crosstown-west.aspx">Eglinton West LRT Website</a></p>
<p><a href="https://blog.metrolinx.com/2021/05/20/eglinton-crosstown-west-extension-deal-signed-and-sealed/">May 2021 UPDATE</a></p><h2>Get in Touch. Get Involved.</h2>
<p><span>Have any questions or concerns regarding our community?</span></p>facebook